After the Passover of 32 CE, Jesus and his disciples were in Phoenicia of Syria, north of the borders of Israel.
Even in this non-Israelite territory, Jesus couldn't escape notice.
Please open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 15, and you may want to put a place marker there.
Matthew chapter 15, starting in verse 22,
a Greek woman, born in Phoenicia, found Jesus and begged him to heal her daughter.
The verse says that the girl was cruelly demon-possessed.
Well, verse 23 says that Jesus did not say a word and answer to the mother.
After a while, his disciples urged him,
send her away because she keeps crying out after us.
The mother was persistent.
In response, Jesus explained his reason for ignoring her in verse 24.
I was not sent to anyone except to the law sheep of the house of Israel.
How would the woman respond?
Would Jesus seeming rejection to scourge her? Would she lose faith?
In the following video, look for evidence of the Phoenician woman's extraordinary faith.
No, I was not Jewish.
But I saw that this Jesus was no ordinary man.
I had heard about his power to help others, and my daughter was suffering.
I wouldn't take no for an answer. I couldn't. This man was from God.
There was nowhere else to turn.
I had faith in Jesus.
When he heard me, he said, let it happen to you as you wish.
And then it did.
My beautiful precious daughter was healthy and smiling again.
Because of her faith, the Phoenician woman overcame the fear of prejudice
that could have prevented her from approaching Jesus.
Remember, she was of Greek descent, Jesus was Jewish.
But as stated in the video, she heard reports of Jesus' power to help others,
and she realized that this man was from God.
Notice in verse 22, she addressed Jesus as Lord Son of David.
She publicly acknowledged that Jesus was the promised Messiah.
And even though at first he didn't respond to her, and then explained his reason for doing so,
she didn't become discouraged.
Let's continue with the account in verse 25 to see the strong faith of this woman.
But the woman came and did obeisance to him saying,
Lord, help me.
How Jesus must have been moved by the woman's heartfelt appeal.
Apparently though, Jesus wanted to test her faith.
Like a parent who plans to grant a child's request,
but doesn't give an outward sign of that plan in order to test the child's seriousness,
notice what Jesus tells her in verse 26.
It is not right to take the bread of the children and throw it to the little dogs.
Among the Greeks and Romans, the dog was often a beloved pet that lived in its owner's house and played with the children.
The expression little dogs, or perhaps a house dog,
might have reminded the woman of a warm and daring picture.
By likening the Israelites to children and non-Jews to little dogs,
Jesus evidently wanted to indicate an order of priority.
In a household with both children and dogs, the children would be fed first.
So Jesus meant that he couldn't care for non-Israelites at the expense of deserving Jews.
Rather than take offense, the woman discerned the point of the illustration and humbly stated in verse 27,
yes, Lord, but really the little dogs do eat of the crumbs falling from the table of their masters.
What a beautiful response.
And what was the result of the woman's remarkable faith?
Verse 28,
Then Jesus replied to her,
Oh woman, great is your faith. Let it happen to you as you wish.
And her daughter was healed from that hour on.
The woman's faith was rewarded when Jesus healed her daughter.
What an example of strong faith.
In the following dramatization, note how someone who has just started to have a good relationship with God
might need to display strong faith like that of the Phoenician woman.
I never thought it would happen.
I finally found what I'd been searching for. A good relationship with God.
Then one day, a coworker texted an article that claimed to expose Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was tempted to read it and then I thought back to when I first met Jehovah's Witnesses.
I was so excited about what they taught me from the Bible.
That God's name is Jehovah, the kingdom is a real government and so much more.
That's what I want to learn about Jehovah's Witnesses from their enemies.
But my friends, not so much.
I saw people who really love one another.
It's a real brotherhood.
But it wasn't just the people. This was the truth.
I didn't need to learn about Jehovah's Witnesses from their enemies.
I had seen for myself that the worship to true God, Jehovah.
Did you notice how the young man recognized and put faith in Jehovah's organization?
That was a protection, so he wasn't misled by lies from our enemies.
His faith might have reminded you of the Phoenician woman.
Remember, she recognized and put faith in Jehovah's representative, his son.
The question we need to consider is, how can we imitate the Phoenician woman's strong faith?
Like that woman, we need to recognize Jehovah's representatives and associate with them.
At Matthew 24.45, Jesus identified these representatives.
He foretold that in our day, he would use the faithful and discreet slave to provide spiritual food at the proper time.
Why can we have strong faith that the governing body is filling that role of the faithful and discreet slave?
Consider three lines of evidence.
First, there's evidence of Holy Spirit guiding these brothers.
For example, Holy Spirit has helped the governing body to grasp scriptural truths not previously understood.
These brothers feel as the Apostle Paul, who wrote at 1 Corinthians 2.13,
these things we also speak, not with words taught by human wisdom, but with those taught by the Spirit.
Second, we see evidence of angelic assistance.
The governing body has the immense task of overseeing an international preaching work involving over 8 million evangelizers.
The overall growth of the preaching and disciple-making work, despite fierce opposition in some lands, has been possible only with superhuman assistance.
A third line of evidence is Reliance on God's Word.
Some religions may revise teachings in order to appease beliefs and opinions of their members.
But our dear brothers of the governing body allow their decisions to be guided by God's Word rather than popular opinion.
We can have strong faith that Jehovah, through his son, is directing the governing body.
And we need to remain loyal to these faithful brothers and to Jehovah's organization,
despite attempts by opposers to discredit them.
What will be the outcome if we do?
Think back to the example of the Phoenician woman.
Was she rewarded for her strong faith?
Yes, when her beloved daughter was healed.
Likewise, if you display strong faith and follow the direction of our leader Jesus,
he will lead you to everlasting life.
Well, the William Malan font, a helper to the teaching committee, will now present the next talk of this symposium.
Imitate women of strong faith, Martha.